---
layout: post
title: RAIM Resolution on Structure and Organizing
category: statements
tags: [organising]
description: A critical assessment of the state of RAIM, along with an assessment of conditions in the imperialist countries and of the communist movement there, has led RAIM to adjust its structure and clarify its aims.
---

A critical assessment of the state of RAIM, along with an assessment of conditions in the imperialist countries and of the communist movement there, has led RAIM to adjust its structure and clarify its aims.

### What is RAIM?

{% include what_is_raim %}

### On cell structure

We want to take the recently increased interest in RAIM and in Third
Worldism and translate it into practice. The way in which we organize must
however be based on a concrete assessment of conditions. We have decided that
the best way forward for RAIM presently is to grow the organization "at the
nodes". Thus, we have decided to implement cell-based organizing.

Practically, RAIM exists as a collection of cells. These cells can be divided
into two categories: media-based cells and on-the-ground cells. Media cells
are, as the name implies, primarily involved in media projects. On-the-ground
cells are involved in building public opinion in support of Third
Worldism through practical work and agitation, working toward building
independent institutions of the oppressed which challenge the material and
cultural hegemony of the bourgeoisie, and building coalitions with other like-
minded groups and individuals with worked-out line differences.

RAIM cells are somewhat independent and are responsible for making decisions
for themselves without needing to wait for orders from a central command. All
RAIM cells are, however, united around RAIMâ€™s [cardinal principles](/members/cardinal-principles/).

Additionally, a central RAIM cell exists which manages the RAIM website and
RAIM's theoretical journal, _Seize the Time_. These resources serve both to
publicize our politics and as a point of reference for local cells. Though the
central RAIM cell does not have _command_ over other cells in a strict sense,
the central RAIM cell is responsible for keeping in contact with local cells,
providing feedback and helping local revolutionaries improve their skills, and
concentrating the experiences of local organizers into coherent theory.

### Why not a more traditional structure?

Historically, revolutionary Marxist organizations have implemented a more
centralized structure. Party members gathered periodically at congresses where
decisions were made democratically. Once these decisions were made, they were
binding on everyone in the organization. Additionally, a central committee was
elected to lead the party between congresses. The decisions of this central
committee were binding on all lower organizational bodies. This structure was
called democratic centralism.

We think democratic centralism is still a good way to structure a
revolutionary organization that is based in a single nation and has a wide
base of support. RAIM is, however, an international collective whose members
are relatively few and spread out at this time. To implement democratic
centralism at the level of the whole collective would be cumbersome and
stifling. It would also likely result in cadres being forced to make decisions
regarding conditions they do not have sufficient knowledge about.

Instead, while RAIM cells are united around a common set of principles, they
have the freedom to make decisions for themselves, to do things differently
than other cells, etc. We feel that the ones most qualified to make most
practical decisions at this time are those organizing on the local level.
Using the general principles RAIM lays out as a guide, it is the
responsibility of local cells to assess their own conditions and to determine
how best to implement our principles in practice. And, each cell has the
freedom to implement democratic centralism in their locales if they so desire.

### Get involved!

Through our various on-the-ground and media cells, RAIM provides a number of
ways for people to get involved. We strongly encourage those who find
agreement with our cardinal principles and are looking to do something to [get
in touch with us](/contact/).
